---
layout: post
title:  "Finless Foods fun"
date:   2017-09-14 14:30:00 -0700
category: startup
color: rgb(102, 202, 229)
---

I met some cool people in a roundabout way last week.

Zois -my housemate Ian's friend from time in Chile- stayed on our couch for a few days.  He invited me to Massive Attack at 1015 Folsom with Emily, a friend visiting SF.  Emily was staying in SoMa with Mike, who she met in Taiwan.  

Mike lives with Brian, and together they run Finless Foods, a new food startup creating fish without fishing or farming.  They're growing fish meat from stem cells.  Finless is creating surimi (fish paste) in the lab now.

- Their fish is healthier than caught fish which contains mercury and plastic.  
- It is also healthier than farmed fish which contains antibiotics and hormones.
- As the fish is grown without a body of water, production can be geographically distributed.
- Since no fish are harmed, Finless appeals to ethical vegans.

An interesting question my housemate Ian asked is: can this fish be produced in a way that is less carbon intensive than the usual process?

When Zois and I picked up Mike, Brian, and co-worker Jihyun, they had just wrapped up an initial tasting.  "This is three quarters of the company in the backseat, right now!" they joked as they piled in.  Mike was looking forward to "only" having to speak in front of 1000 people the following week.  Easy, in comparison.  

Zois, Emily, Mike, and I went to Massive Attack together.  It was a fun show, closing with "Teardrop".  Afterwards, we took a peek at the IndieBio incubator which was right around the corner.

In the morning, Mike mentioned that he had actually felt unstressed for the first time in months.  Balance is important!
(An hour later he was off to New York on a plane.)

Here's the link to the "1000 people" talk mentioned above - [IndieBio SF Demo Day 5][ib].

Mike comes on just before the 1:03:00 mark.
<div class="container">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UPnDtDXz9s8" 
frameborder="0" allowfullscreen class="video"></iframe>
</div>

Good luck to [Finless Foods][fin]!!

[ib]: https://youtu.be/UPnDtDXz9s8?t=1h2m30s
[fin]: https://twitter.com/finlessfoods