---
layout: post
title:  "Van Damme camping"
date:   2017-09-21 10:30:00 -0700
category:
color: rgb(61, 153, 112)
---

Before this next weekend gets started, I wanted to get the details of my trip to Mendocino on paper.  

Jake, Brian, and I camped at Van Damme State Park Friday and Saturday night.  (Van *Damme*, gurl) 

It was a 5hr drive from San Jose in rush hour traffic!  Luckily we did take the scenic routes closer to the coast, which ended up being further, but without traffic and along 2 lane roads.  As Google Maps tends to adjust ETA adding up to half an hour as traffic rises, we definitely saved time thinking through our route.

The site was #37 and was situated nicely on top of a rise, with bathrooms nearby and good sunlight in the morning.

We kept meals to a couple ingredients to save space and reduce costs:
- Pasta (tortellini, alfredo)
- Smores (graham crackers, marshmallows, hershey's) 
- Quesadillas (tortillas, mexican cheese, sausage)
- Oatmeal (oats, peanut butter)
- Mandarin Oranges

Our original plan was to take a sea cave kayaking tour, but it was expensive and full.  So we called an audible and drove up to Fort Bragg.  Here's the places we went:

- Glass Beach, to see the glass and swim.  Cold water filled with kelp forests!  The Van Damme camp ranger told us Glass Beach used to be a literal dump, then the county was told to clean it up.  All the broken bottles became glass beach.  Now that's good marketing.  We talked to an abalone diver who was tagging some shells, and he explained he was part of a competition taking place today.

- Caspar Beach, where a Triton Free Diving competition weigh in was going on.  We saw abalone, cod, and scallops the size of a baseball mitt.

- North Coast Brewery, home of Brother Thelonius Belgian Style Abbey Ale (appley) and the Rasputin Russian Imperial Stout (chocolatey).  

- Pygmy Forest Trail.  Pygmy means short, and this forest's stunted growth is caused by poor soil, as the area sat underwater many years ago.  There were huckleberrys (very edible!) along the boardwalk through the pygmy forest, followed by a wide fire trail to the next intersection about 2 1/2 miles up, surrounded by redwoods.   

- Big River beach, to enjoy a beer and catch the sunset after the hike.  The sun sets over the point instead of the ocean, so you get to enjoy the flash of the sun setting, then a few extra minutes of light to finish your beer as the actual sunset occurs.  The area in the back, a broad beach along the big river, looked excellent for hanging out during the day.  (noted)

- Russian River Brewery, home of Pliny the Elder/Younger.  A great pit stop on the way back.  It was very busy with locals on Sunday as it is happy hour all day, so we ate down the street at a burger joint and came back.  I tried the Golden Ale and grabbed a growler of Pliny.  